Update VS Code extension overview to reflect Open Preview of Config Test Run (#8549)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/vs-code-extension-overview.adoc

[#prerequisites]
=== Prerequisites

> * CircleCI VS Code extension v2.0 or higher

Author: I missed this, it's now actually `v.2.3.0` or higher

> * CircleCI VS Code extension v2.0 or higher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* CircleCI VS Code extension v2.3.0 or higher
```

* A CircleCI account integrated through the GitHub OAuth app, or Bitbucket. To find out which GitHub account type you have, see the xref:github-integration#[GitHub OAuth app integration] page

> * Your org must have opted-in to this feature through Organization Settings. See <<feature-controls>> for more details.

Author: Can we extend it to this?
```
* Your org must have opted-in to this feature through Organization Settings. You may need to ask your org admin to do so for you. See <<feature-controls>> for more details.
```

> * Your org must have opted-in to this feature through Organization Settings. See <<feature-controls>> for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your org must have opted-in to this feature through Organization Settings. You may need to ask your org admin to do so for you. See <<feature-controls>> for more details.
```

[#auditability]
==== Auditability

Audit logs trace when organization and project level settings are changed for this feature.

- The event `organzation.settings.update` is sent when organization-level settings for this feature are changed.
- The event `project.settings.update` is sent when project-level settings for this feature are changed.

Both the events below log:

- Date and time of the event happened

- User ID of the actor performing the action

- Information on which setting was changed

The events above do not call out the new value explicitly, but this is inferable by looking at the current state of the setting.

At this time, audit logs **do not** explicitly call out if a pipeline was run with unversioned config.

[#coming-soon]

> ==== Coming soon

Author: Can we make this a smaller header? The section below still belongs to "Auditability"

> ==== Coming soon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Coming soon
```

In the coming weeks, we commit to adding the following audit log event to include more information: `trigger-event.create`. The event data payload is as follows:

- Pipeline ID
- Pipeline number
- Author
- Trigger “origin” (API, VCS…)

> - Is config unversioned? `true/false`

Author: @JulesFaucherre will this be done and validated by Thursday? 
I don't mind leaving this "coming soon" and adjusting it at a later stage. Would give us a buffer for checking if all is good on the audit side. 
But I'll let you decide, you know how close we are to merging and testing in prod if audits have all they need

Reviewer 2: The definition of the audit log can be found [here](https://github.com/circleci/circle/blob/0cb71fc721568e3feaabc9d7c6b989d1c55b0bac/src/circle/services/builds.clj#L400-L407). In the log you have:
 - Pipeline ID
 - Actor ID
 - Project ID
 - Branch or tag
 - Config source; value can be `"api"` or `"vcs"` where `"api"` means the config is unversioned because not coming from the VCS.

Reviewer: @BeFunes I think this list needs updating in the doc before you merge, let me know and I will do it

* v2.0 or higher of the CircleCI VS Code extension
* A CircleCI account integrated through the GitHub OAuth app, or Bitbucket. To find out which GitHub account type you have, see the xref:github-integration#[GitHub OAuth app integration] page
* Your project must **not** make use of xref:dynamic-config#[dynamic configuration]. This feature is disabled for projects that use dynamic configuration.

NOTE: **Unversioned config** in CircleCI indicates that the `.circleci/config.yml` on the branch where the pipeline is running is ignored, and instead, the configuration file is overridden by a custom configuration file passed as a parameter.

[WARNING]
====

> Please be mindful when running pipelines with _unversioned_ configuration, and take care to ensure no jobs with unintended effects are included in the run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use caution when running pipelines with _unversioned_ configuration. Take care to ensure no jobs with unintended effects are included in the run.
```

> Test run pipelines triggered from VS Code have access to contexts and project environment variables, based on which branch they are run on and on author permissions. We therefore recommend using this feature **only** on feature branches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test run pipelines triggered from VS Code have access to contexts and project environment variables based on branch and author permissions. We recommend using this feature **only** on feature branches.
```

> This feature is enabled by default on all projects. You can opt-out of this feature per project. For more details, see <<feature-controls>>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability to trigger pipelines from VS Code is enabled by default on all projects. You can opt-out of this feature per project. For more details, see <<feature-controls>>. 
```

> The following issues will be addressed in the coming weeks: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following issue fixes are in development: 
```

- Audit logs do not mention that a pipeline was run with unversioned config.

> - Pipelines run with unversioned configuration are not differentiated from other pipelines in the WebUI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pipelines run with unversioned configuration are not differentiated from other pipelines in the CircleCI web app.
```

- PR status checks may be altered as a result of unversioned config overrides
====

[#steps]
=== Steps

The following steps show how to test run a pipeline from the VS Code extension:

. Open VS Code and select the CircleCI logo in the sidebar. The **Pipelines** and **Run** panels will be visible.
. Expand the **Run** panel to view your projects.
. For each project, there is a button to trigger the config test run, and check boxes for each workflow and job for you to choose which parts of your config you want to run. Select your options, and click icon:play[]. Any local change you make to your `.circleci/config.yml` file will be included in the test run.
. The pipeline is now visible in your link:https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/[dashboard] in the CircleCI web app, and the Pipelines panel in the VS Code extension.

[#feature-controls]
=== Feature Controls

> This feature is enabled by default on all projects, but access to it can be controlled **at the project level**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability to trigger pipelines from VS Code is enabled by default on all projects. You can opt-out of this feature **at the project level**, as follows:
```

> * Project level settings can be found under menu:Project Settings[VS Code integration]. Toggle the "Run pipelines with unversioned config" option to **Off** to opt-out. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate to Project Settings[VS Code integration]
. Toggle the "Run pipelines with unversioned config" option to **Off** to opt-out
```

> We plan on adding organization-level controls for this feature soon. 

Reviewer: This would be better in the banner of things that are being worked on further up the page. We avoid time sensitive information outside banners to avoid outdated info remaining in the main text

Author: How can we achieve this banner? 
To be clear, we will DEFINITELY remove this because it's very much top of mind at the moment.

Reviewer: OK if it's very short term then that's fine

Author: Turned it into an info banner

. Expand the **Run** panel to view your projects.
. For each project, there is a button to trigger the config test run, and check boxes for each workflow and job for you to choose which parts of your config you want to run. Select your options, and click icon:play[]. Any local change you make to your `.circleci/config.yml` file will be included in the test run.
. The pipeline is now visible in your link:https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/[dashboard] in the CircleCI web app, and the Pipelines panel in the VS Code extension. Please note that, for now, pipelines run with unversioned configuration are not differentiated from other pipelines in the CircleCI web app.

[#feature-controls]
=== Feature Controls

The ability to trigger pipelines from VS Code can be controlled **at the org level** and **at the project level**. 

* Organization level settings can be found under menu:Organization Settings[Advanced]. The setting default is **Off**. Toggle the "Trigger pipelines with unversioned config" option to On to opt-in. 
    Organization level settings can be changed only by organization admins, and override project settings.

> * Project level settings can be found under menu:Project Settings[VS Code integration].  The setting default is **On**. Toggle the "Trigger pipelines with unversioned config" option to Off to opt-out.

Reviewer: @BeFunes So is this a setting specific to the ability to use the feature through the VS Code extension, or will this also affect the ability to trigger with unversioned config via the API? If it's for both it seems like the menu position should be more general, if that makes sense?

Author: It's for both. 
Yes, it makes sense. We decided to put it in "VS Code Integrations" because at the moment it's the only place where we make this feature evident, and we thought this is the place where users would most likely look.
The "Advanced" page of proejct settings is so busy that we worried this wouldn't have been found. 

That said, I agree this should not be the permanent location of this setting, if Open Preview is validated and we decide to move forward and document it through the API etc

Triggering a pipeline with an _unversioned_ configuration can have side effects, for example, unwanted deployment. We recommend using this feature **only** on feature branches.

Test run pipelines triggered from VS Code have access to contexts, and project environment variables, based on which branch they are run on, and user permissions.

> This feature is enabled by default on all projects. You can opt-out of this feature per project or per org. See more details under Feature Settings. 

Author: > See more details under Feature Settings.
 I wasn't sure how to add a link. @rosieyohannan can you help?

Triggering a pipeline with an _unversioned_ configuration can have side effects, for example, unwanted deployment. We recommend using this feature **only** on feature branches.

Test run pipelines triggered from VS Code have access to contexts, and project environment variables, based on which branch they are run on, and user permissions.

> You can opt-out to this feature per project. For your project, navigate to menu:Project Settings[VS Code integration] and toggle the "Run pipelines with unversioned config" to **Off**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can opt-out of this feature per project. For your project, navigate to menu:Project Settings[VS Code integration] and toggle the "Run pipelines with unversioned config" option to **Off**.
```

. For each project, there is a button to trigger the config test run, and check boxes for each workflow and job for you to choose which parts of your config you want to run. Select your options, and click icon:play[]. Any local change you make to your `.circleci/config.yml` file will be included in the test run.
. The pipeline is now visible in your link:https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/[dashboard] in the CircleCI web app, and the Pipelines panel in the VS Code extension.

> [#feature-settings]

Author: not sure if writing it this way is correct

=== Feature Settings

Access to this feature can be controlled **at the project level** or **at the org level**.

* Project level settings can be found under menu:Project Settings[VS Code integration]. Toggle the "Run pipelines with unversioned config" option to **Off** to opt-out. 
* Organization level settings can be found under menu:Organization Settings[Advanced]. Toggle "Trigger pipelines with unversioned config" option to **Off** to opt-out.

>   Organization level settings can be changed only by organization admins, and override project settings. 

Author: I'm not confident in any of this wording, if there is anything you'd like to change please go ahead!
